# finance2gsheet
This project entails a Python program designed to meticulously extract and structure financial data from PDF bank statements, ultimately populating a Google spreadsheet with precision and clarity. Before use it, please read the *specification and limitations*.

## Installation
First step is to clone the repository
    
```bash
git clone https://github.com/MichelH4cker/finance2gsheet 
```

After that, you will need to install all libraries used. Write the following code in your terminal

```bash
pip install PyPDF2 gspread google-auth-oauthlib==0.4.6

```

## Usage 
The most complicated part of using it is creating a folder and a spreadsheet in Google Drive and authorizing its use as an API. I recommend watching the video https://youtu.be/82DGz7IxW7c, which was the step by step I followed.

After the google configurations it's very simple yo use the program is very simples. In your terminal you will need to run the bash script and follow the instructions:

```bash
./finance2gsheet.sh
```

## Specifications and limitations
The program uses the PyPDF2 library to read a bank statement from a pdf file. This creates a problem, since each bank formulates the pdf file in a different way. Readings in pdf files are very inconsistent, a minimum space between lines can change the entire reading.

Therefore, this project was made thinking about bank statement files generated by <span style="color:Yellow"><b>Banco do Brasil</b></span>. All the data reading and formatting logic was designed for this specific case.

If you want to make the application work for other databases and other pdf files, just create your changes and make a pull request on github.